day 11 today. I started a new lession on the Brand new topic for me that is ANSIBLE one of the most important tools that i must learn on the road to devops.

So, what i am knowing is now, an ansible is known as a configuration management tool. basically in simple words, i sit on one machine and do the commands in the one machine and the changes respective to those commands are happening to another machine. it's like doing home from work. from home i do the works of others who's in usa, canada etc. this is just a simple my typical style of addressing ansible as simple as i am knowing.

So, ansible comes under one of the most important category in the devops which is IAC(INFRASTRUCTURE AS A CODE) which is known to have already provisioned services while installing the new system. and terraform also comes under IAC category too. as i have already once done IAC which is to deploy a wordpress website using IAC where i had created a multi vm using single vagrant configuration file which contained 5 vms and using that code i created a provisioned and ready to go wordpress website within a minute.

but ansible is totally new to me so i am going thoroughly on this one and i got to know that how ansible makes the connection is based on ssh connection. it truly based on ssh connection. there are many more config mgmt tools like chef,puppet,saltstack, CFEngine etc. The main difference between these other config mgmt tools and ansible is that ansible works on push based mechanism which means it pushes from master node which is main node that control the entire config of other machine and it pushes from master node to worker node(other working machines). Here, master node is the main computer which contains all the configuration of other worker nodes and through that master node the configuration is pushed to worker nodes whereas these chef,puppet,saltstack, CFEngine they work on pull based mechanism which means there is an agent between the master node and worker node and that agent pulls the configuration from the master nodes.

So the key difference between ansible and others config tools is that ansible is push based whereas master node pushes the config to worker node and changes are applied and agentless and ssh based configurations whereas other tools has agent that pulls the configs from the master and changes are applied. 

so i am getting bit of knowledge about the terraform too here. so these both ansible and terraform comes under IAC whereas ansible is totally a config mgmt tool but terraform is infrastrucutre provisioning. the main job or main uses of terraform is in clouds to create infras whereas there's such scripts and terraform follows that script and creates a infrastrucutre which is fully automated. 

so i also came to known that while configuring the ansible, better not to be a root user and configure it as root is a superuser and we have to do passwordless communication that means we don't need to use any type of password while configuring the ansible and it's true that while doing commuication between worker node and the master node if it asks for password then the entire meaning of being automation fails so better not be root user while configuring ansible. so to get rid of that problem, we create the same user in each system and give the sudo access to that user and same password to that user which will help us to get rid of getting or asking password problem.

that's for current posting. will learn more and follow about that on next lesson. basically today's session was theoretical as i am learning more about how broad is this ansible and that etc.