things i am now learning is to check the harddisk is cmd: lsblk. i checked and there was this:
[vagrant@centos9s ~]$ lsblk
NAME              MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS
sda                 8:0    0  128G  0 disk 
├─sda1              8:1    0    1G  0 part /boot
└─sda2              8:2    0  127G  0 part 
  ├─centos9s-root 253:0    0  125G  0 lvm  /
  └─centos9s-swap 253:1    0    2G  0 lvm  [SWAP]

and what i did next was i added a virtual harddisk. first i turned off my vm. and then opened oracle vb. went into the settings of that vm, went into the storage section and there bottom right corner there was a hard disk add type of logo. i clicked on that and window popuped and i hit on create disk and disk was virtual hard disk(vdi) which i added that on the system and click on ok and choosed that one and added that harddisk onto the vm. and btw intersting fact i got to found that while creating a vm if i choose pre allocate to full size to that vdi then that 10gb will be created onto my host machine taking up my 10 gb of storage on the host system. so be careful while adding the storage onto the file.

so again i checked the vm using lsblk and there i can see sda--- sdb as newly created one. and to do the partition today i need to go inside that newly created vdi using the cmd fdisk and the device where added to that location.

ie: fdisk /dev/sdb and followed some basic process for it (ask for cgpt to fill up this space)

and to refresh these disk i used partprobe cmd to refresh the disk.

and i got to know that without formatting the newly created partition won't run until i format it using the format xfs or ext4. and i got to know the diff between these two format types is that most of the cases ubuntu usually uses this ext4 format whereas red hat systems like redhat,fedora,centos most probably be using this xfs format system. that's new to me.

so i formatted the sdb into the xfs format using : mkfs.xfs -f /dev/sdb as it was asking me there's already partition table so used the f flag. and got me this output
[root@centos9s ~]# mkfs.xfs -f /dev/sdb1 here i mistaken one thing that i formatted the sdb rather than the numbered partition my mistake as i got the error saying bad superblock and how i realized that was it was saying there's no any fs or filesystem and i realized that this block of partition hasn't been formated so i hit that mkfs.xfs /dev/sdb1 and then the file also got mounted on the desired location i wanted
meta-data=/dev/sdb               isize=512    agcount=4, agsize=655360 blks
         =                       sectsz=512   attr=2, projid32bit=1
         =                       crc=1        finobt=1, sparse=1, rmapbt=0
         =                       reflink=1    bigtime=1 inobtcount=1 nrext64=0
data     =                       bsize=4096   blocks=2621440, imaxpct=25
         =                       sunit=0      swidth=0 blks
naming   =version 2              bsize=4096   ascii-ci=0, ftype=1
log      =internal log           bsize=4096   blocks=16384, version=2
         =                       sectsz=512   sunit=0 blks, lazy-count=1
realtime =none                   extsz=4096   blocks=0, rtextents=0

and then mounted the partitioned disk on the directory named : nixhdd ie: mount /dev/sdb1 /nixhdd and lsblk shows that disk is mounted perfectly.

so i know already one thing that this mount this i have recently added to /nixhdd this a temporary mount cuz we need to permanently mount the disk like we used to do with the services like we set them enabled so they load up in the boot time so we don't have to start it manually all the time. and if you think how come i know this is because one time i faced a real world situation like it's personal environment not a professional one cuz i just bought a hard disk caddy to insert my hdd into my laptop through cdrom area as i have ssd in my primary area of storage. i did everything perfectly no problem but when i started my system i see no hdd showing up in my system so i googled like more than hour got so much worried but then finally i got to know that when inserting a disk virtually or non virtually you have to create a certain partition, format it and have to do a permanent mount on the fstab. so i did all that and i got my harddisk attached to the system that time. that really saved my time and entire another day and worriness. so this is my real and personal story of this mount system info.

everything went perfect and rebooted the system but now occurs a real problem the system was struggling to reboot that even caught my host system to hang up for a while and i force reboot my entire system. and now i opened it and started the vm but now the vm won't even startup and i know it must be that fstab problem which i set previously and i knew it. i panicked real hard today cuz all the materials i have practiced is inside this vm and this contains most of the items like dir nd files that i have practiced i am being bit dramatic here but i do want to say this really messed my head for a while but i stayed calm and searched for how to handle this situation. since i use my vm as a vagrant user, vagrant allows it's user to get direct root access without any password so i mostly use that method so i got two method where when system was booting i should stop normal booting and entered first i pauseed the boot system and then selected my version of os and press e to open a little grub menu and there i searched for the vmlinuz.........crashkernel words and at the end of the word i put systemd.unit=emergency.target and press ctrl+x which opened with another terminal with boot modification. but it was asking for user password. i knew i already had one user named nixhal which i added on previous session and entered as nixhal but i forgot that from visudo config i removed the user nixhal from using root with/without passwd and i felt stupid for doing that too. so this method won't work and then i got another method which will bypass entire password method and get into direct and naked root shell and what i did was i removed that systemd line and added init=/bin/bash and press ctrl+x which rebooted the system and directly opened me to a naked root terminal where anything can be done but first since it's a naked terminal of root things works here differently first i made allow to save changes by running mount -o remount,rw / which will allow save changes work done in this terminal, 2ndly vim /etc/fstab and checked what's the actual error there and found out that i made a simple typo error like i forgot to give s for default as it should be "defaults" and i immediately changed that infact i removed that and and press :wq! to save changes in fstab out of vim and then press sync to force system to save data to the disk. and then i now manually reset the vm from the virtualbox simply right click on my vm in the virtualbox and there's a reset button and did that and boom my system ran again as it used to. i didn't remove the system i stayed calm and solved the unknown problem by myself with the help of ai and some websites like stackoverflow and others. 

After that again i created a new harddisk and then mounted inside the system,created the partition,formated this time into ext4 and format and mounted it on /fiveghdd well good and then i now permanent mounted into the fstab carefully rechecking each letters carefullly and it went like this: /dev/sdb1 /fiveghdd ext4 defaults 0 0 and rebooted the system and boom the disk is now permanently mounted on /fiveghdd. that's how i solved my problem and to delete that partition i did : fdisk /dev/sdb which opened me a partition window where i checked for help and to delete the partition it was d and selected auto 1 partition and also asked me there was a new format with xfs want to delete it and i deleted and boom the file is also deleted. and this is how i today learned the disk partition, mounting and when error occurs how to tackle it without panicking cuz production environment doesn't ask for panics it asks for calmness and delivery and that's what i did today although i panicked a little not gonna lie. and one command : df -TH was to check all the mounted disks entire data where are they mounting and what's their format, size, type, available,used, memory used etc. today was a valuable lesson learned. 

another things i learned today. just like before like how i fixed the booting system, if i forgot my root passwd then i what i did was just as before just like how i used the init=/bin/bash, replaced with rd.break which opened me a emergency shell and here and like wise how we use in the system cd dir,cd /path/to/location here we use chroot to change the directory and main directory in this emergency shell is /sysroot which acts as a / in the main system but in emergency shell. now likewise how i edited my fstab, here i first checked the /sysroot status if it's writtable or not to check i used findmnt /sysroot and saw there ro which is read only and changed into rw ie: mount -o remount,rw /sysroot which now can be written and saved into the file. now after that i changed the dir ie: chroot /sysroot and passwd root and entered the root passwd and saved changes and used this command ie: touch ./autorelabel which kinda refresh this shell and it's command to make save changes. i did that and exited the system and my system rebooted and i now can access the system with the current root passwd i set right now. 

these are my detailed and comprehensive study of today about the disk addition and mounting for permanent and today i got to know many more and all are very important in part of learning linux. and for devops these are very important. there's a famous quote from a very famous scientific paranormal expert gaurav tiwari "If you don't know how to believe it, then how will you believe it?"

and linux is literally the most practical thing you can't understand until you sit on the system and test about.